Up until now we have added some code into our store procedure to create the table.
And today we're going to learn how to populate it.
However before we do that let's quickly add a comment on top of this blog because our procedure is going
to be split into blocks.
So we're going to make it look amazing as well.
So just copy this part over here and copy it into here as well.
And now we're going to just type in that this is our create table lock and now we're going to add another
block which is going to be an insert into table block.
So we're going to call it in search in two.
And let's get ahead and start with this.
So we already have this table.
It's as we know it's an empty table so we're here.
So if I open it up it's got the right columns and they have the right types but they don't have any
data.
So let's find this data and insert it.
We know that the data is stored in the raw table which I can execute here and I will see it so it's
handy to have it in front of me.
So I want to insert data into this into the table that we've created so I need to type in the following
code insert into.
Then I need to copy the table name.
You'll see it is very easy to insert.
And now I just copy all of these columns that I'm going to be inserting into.
I won't be answering into the identity row because as we discussed it is populated automatically by
this command into identity.
So I'm just going to copy these rows.
Obviously I don't need the comma at the start going to bring the brackets up.
And you don't need the types here anymore so this is probably the only tedious part deleting these types
.
But once you've done that you already know that you want insert into this table into these columns.
So if you didn't want to insert into zip code for instance you could just leave it out and you could
insert into four but we're going to insert into all the columns and what are we going to insert.
Well the answer is very simple.
We're going to insert data from this table right.
So we need to run a select statement so we're going to go select.
Then you need to list the columns that you're going to be inserted so the columns from this table and
then from the name of the table so I'm going to copy the name of the table here.
But instead of listing the columns one by one manually I'm going to use a handy tricks I'm just going
to open up the table customer list here and I'm just going to take and copy the columns once again before
the row number.
And now I just paste them in here.
Now the reason why I didn't copy the columns if you're wondering from here is because sometimes you
might choose to name them differently for instance I could have named instead of calling this a customer
idea could have called that customer identity or things like that.
So if the names of the columns in your working table are different to your raw table then you might
get into a bit of trouble.
So it's better to just copy the names of the columns from your raw table by doing a select up thousand
rows.
All right so basically what this is saying is select these rows send these columns from this table and
insert them into this table into these columns.
And so it'll match them this one.
This column will go to this column.
This column will go into this column and so on.
And so that's all we had to do.
The times will be converted automatically so as long as our data is nice and pretty and there are no
anomalies which we will talk about in the next section of the Course as long as that's the case and
we've set up these types correctly which we did in the previous tutorial then you all will automatically
convert your data.
So this one will go from a barge or a thousand to a watch or 100.
This will stay our char a thousand.
This one will go from Wataru thousand to five.
And so on and age will move from being a string into a float.
And if there are any errors along the way as know we'll let you know and you will be able to deal with
them on a case by case basis.
And once again we'll talk about that in the next section but it really save you time you don't have
to convert every single one of these right now using the convert operator.
So that's our insert into saw tables ready so let's go ahead and run this insert.
I'm just going to select that part of the proc then I'm going to run and I'm going to click execute
.
Up here 43 rows affected correctly so affected.
So what we're going to do is we're going to copy this message.
I recommend doing this every time and we'll put it in as a comment after insert statement so that somebody
who's looking through our code later on or editing it or tried to recreate it can know exactly how many
rows were inserted that specific time when we ran this query.
And now let's go ahead and look at the table.
So there it is our table select top thousand rows and there you go.
So no it's not empty anymore.
It has the data in the correct format.
Congratulations you have just populated your first working table and that's it for today.
One last thing that we have to remember to do is we have to say about prok so for highlighting anything
I'm just going to execute this proc.
And now it's saved so I can close my proc.
I can close my table I can close my other table and if I open up my proc again you will see that your
code has been saved.
Hope you enjoy this tutorial and I look forward to seeing you on the next one.